README.md, before:

# Enhanced Multi-Item FiveM Resource

A comprehensive FiveM resource for qbox framework that adds multiple usable items with metadata storage capabilities. This enhanced version supports notebooks, journals, business cards, and photo descriptions.

## 🆕 **Enhanced Features**

### **Multiple Item Types**

- **📔 Personal Notebook**: Quick notes and thoughts (500 chars)
- **📖 Daily Journal**: Extended entries for detailed experiences (1000 chars)
- **💼 Business Card**: Professional contact information (300 chars)
- **📷 Personal Photo**: Photo descriptions and memories (250 chars)

### **Advanced Functionality**

- **Smart UI**: Each item type has custom icons and placeholders
- **Character Limits**: Different limits per item type for appropriate usage
- **Metadata Tracking**: Stores author, timestamp, and item type
- **Admin Tools**: `/checkitem [slot]` command for administrators
- **Backwards Compatibility**: Supports old notebook system

## 🎯 **Use Cases**

### **Roleplay Scenarios**

- **Journalists** can use journals for article drafts
- **Business owners** can exchange business cards with contact info
- **Photographers** can catalog their work with descriptions
- **Students** can take notes during classes
- **Investigators** can document evidence and observations

## 📋 **Dependencies**

- [qbx_core](https://github.com/Qbox-project/qbx_core) - Core framework
- [ox_inventory](https://github.com/overextended/ox_inventory) - Inventory system
- [ox_lib](https://github.com/overextended/ox_lib) - UI library and utilities

## 🚀 **Installation**

1. **Download the Resource**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/enhanced-notebook-item.git
   cd enhanced-notebook-item
   ```

2. **Run Installation Script**

   ```bash
   chmod +x install.sh
   ./install.sh
   ```

3. **Add to server.cfg**

   ```cfg
   ensure notebook_item
   ```

4. **Add Items to ox_inventory**
   - Copy all item definitions from `items.txt` to your `ox_inventory/data/items.lua`

## 📝 **Item Definitions**

```lua
-- All four item types with different characteristics
['notebook'] = { /* 500 char limit, general notes */ },
['journal'] = { /* 1000 char limit, detailed entries */ },
['businesscard'] = { /* 300 char limit, contact info */ },
['photo'] = { /* 250 char limit, photo descriptions */ }
```

## 🎮 **Usage Examples**

### **For Players**

1. **Taking Meeting Notes**
   - Use notebook for quick bullet points
   - Use journal for detailed meeting summaries

2. **Business Networking**
   - Create business cards with contact information
   - Share professional details with other players

3. **Photography Documentation**
   - Add descriptions to memorable photos
   - Document special moments and locations

### **For Administrators**

```bash
# Give items to players
/give [player_id] notebook 1
/give [player_id] journal 1
/give [player_id] businesscard 1
/give [player_id] photo 1

# Check item content (admin only)
/checkitem [slot_number]
```

## ⚙️ **Configuration**

### **Item Limits (shared/config.lua)**

```lua
config.items = {
    notebook = { maxLength = 500 },
    journal = { maxLength = 1000 },
    businesscard = { maxLength = 300 },
    photo = { maxLength = 250 }
}
```

### **Advanced Features (shared/advanced.lua)**

- Content sharing between players (future)
- Password protection for sensitive items (future)
- Content categorization system (future)
- Job-based restrictions
- Usage statistics tracking

## 🔧 **Development Tools**

### **Validation & Testing**

```bash
./validate.sh          # Validate resource structure
./notebook.sh test      # Run comprehensive tests
```

### **Build & Deploy**

```bash
./build.sh             # Create distribution packages
./deploy.sh            # Deploy to FiveM server
```

### **Master Control**

```bash
./notebook.sh          # Interactive menu for all operations
```

## 📊 **Technical Features**

### **Security**

- Server-side input validation
- XSS protection through sanitization
- Character limits per item type
- Player verification before updates

### **Performance**

- Efficient metadata storage
- Minimal network overhead
- Optimized UI interactions
- Smart caching of configurations

### **Compatibility**

- Backwards compatible with original notebook system
- Works with existing qbox/ox_inventory setups
- Supports multiple FiveM server versions

## 🏗️ **File Structure**

``` plaintext
notebook_item/
├── fxmanifest.lua              # Resource manifest
├── shared/
│   ├── config.lua              # Item configurations
│   └── advanced.lua            # Advanced feature settings
├── client/
│   └── main.lua                # Client-side UI and interactions
└── server/
    └── main.lua                # Server-side validation and storage
```

## 🔄 **Changelog**

### **v1.0.1 - Enhanced Multi-Item System**

- ✅ Added journal, business card, and photo items
- ✅ Individual character limits per item type
- ✅ Enhanced UI with custom icons and placeholders
- ✅ Admin inspection tools
- ✅ Improved metadata tracking
- ✅ Advanced configuration options

### **v1.0.0 - Original Notebook System**

- ✅ Basic notebook functionality
- ✅ Metadata storage
- ✅ Server-side validation

## 📞 **Support**

- **Documentation**: Check the `docs/` folder for detailed guides
- **Issues**: Report bugs via GitHub Issues
- **Wiki**: Visit the project wiki for advanced usage examples

## 📄 **License**

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

## 🤝 **Contributing**

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run validation tests
5. Submit a pull request

---

### Made with ❤️ for the Rebirth FiveM roleplay community

Commit message:

Update README to include version context and development background

README.md, after:

# Enhanced Multi-Item FiveM Resource

A comprehensive FiveM resource for qbox framework that adds multiple usable items with metadata storage capabilities. This enhanced version supports notebooks, journals, business cards, and photo descriptions. Currently at version 1.0.1, this resource is based off of a month or so of learning and development, and is designed to be easily integrated into existing FiveM roleplay servers.

## 🆕 **Enhanced Features**

### **Multiple Item Types**

- **📔 Personal Notebook**: Quick notes and thoughts (500 chars)
- **📖 Daily Journal**: Extended entries for detailed experiences (1000 chars)
- **💼 Business Card**: Professional contact information (300 chars)
- **📷 Personal Photo**: Photo descriptions and memories (250 chars)

### **Advanced Functionality**

- **Smart UI**: Each item type has custom icons and placeholders
- **Character Limits**: Different limits per item type for appropriate usage
- **Metadata Tracking**: Stores author, timestamp, and item type
- **Admin Tools**: `/checkitem [slot]` command for administrators
- **Backwards Compatibility**: Supports old notebook system

## 🎯 **Use Cases**

### **Roleplay Scenarios**

- **Journalists** can use journals for article drafts
- **Business owners** can exchange business cards with contact info
- **Photographers** can catalog their work with descriptions
- **Students** can take notes during classes
- **Investigators** can document evidence and observations

## 📋 **Dependencies**

- [qbx_core](https://github.com/Qbox-project/qbx_core) - Core framework
- [ox_inventory](https://github.com/overextended/ox_inventory) - Inventory system
- [ox_lib](https://github.com/overextended/ox_lib) - UI library and utilities

## 🚀 **Installation**

1. **Download the Resource**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/enhanced-notebook-item.git
   cd enhanced-notebook-item
   ```

2. **Run Installation Script**

   ```bash
   chmod +x install.sh
   ./install.sh
   ```

3. **Add to server.cfg**

   ```cfg
   ensure notebook_item
   ```

4. **Add Items to ox_inventory**
   - Copy all item definitions from `items.txt` to your `ox_inventory/data/items.lua`

## 📝 **Item Definitions**

```lua
-- All four item types with different characteristics
['notebook'] = { /* 500 char limit, general notes */ },
['journal'] = { /* 1000 char limit, detailed entries */ },
['businesscard'] = { /* 300 char limit, contact info */ },
['photo'] = { /* 250 char limit, photo descriptions */ }
```

## 🎮 **Usage Examples**

### **For Players**

1. **Taking Meeting Notes**
   - Use notebook for quick bullet points
   - Use journal for detailed meeting summaries

2. **Business Networking**
   - Create business cards with contact information
   - Share professional details with other players

3. **Photography Documentation**
   - Add descriptions to memorable photos
   - Document special moments and locations

### **For Administrators**

```bash
# Give items to players
/give [player_id] notebook 1
/give [player_id] journal 1
/give [player_id] businesscard 1
/give [player_id] photo 1

# Check item content (admin only)
/checkitem [slot_number]
```

## ⚙️ **Configuration**

### **Item Limits (shared/config.lua)**

```lua
config.items = {
    notebook = { maxLength = 500 },
    journal = { maxLength = 1000 },
    businesscard = { maxLength = 300 },
    photo = { maxLength = 250 }
}
```

### **Advanced Features (shared/advanced.lua)**

- Content sharing between players (future)
- Password protection for sensitive items (future)
- Content categorization system (future)
- Job-based restrictions
- Usage statistics tracking

## 🔧 **Development Tools**

### **Validation & Testing**

```bash
./validate.sh          # Validate resource structure
./notebook.sh test      # Run comprehensive tests
```

### **Build & Deploy**

```bash
./build.sh             # Create distribution packages
./deploy.sh            # Deploy to FiveM server
```

### **Master Control**

```bash
./notebook.sh          # Interactive menu for all operations
```

## 📊 **Technical Features**

### **Security**

- Server-side input validation
- XSS protection through sanitization
- Character limits per item type
- Player verification before updates

### **Performance**

- Efficient metadata storage
- Minimal network overhead
- Optimized UI interactions
- Smart caching of configurations

### **Compatibility**

- Backwards compatible with original notebook system
- Works with existing qbox/ox_inventory setups
- Supports multiple FiveM server versions

## 🏗️ **File Structure**

``` plaintext
notebook_item/
├── fxmanifest.lua              # Resource manifest
├── shared/
│   ├── config.lua              # Item configurations
│   └── advanced.lua            # Advanced feature settings
├── client/
│   └── main.lua                # Client-side UI and interactions
└── server/
    └── main.lua                # Server-side validation and storage
```

## 🔄 **Changelog**

### **v1.0.1 - Enhanced Multi-Item System**

- ✅ Added journal, business card, and photo items
- ✅ Individual character limits per item type
- ✅ Enhanced UI with custom icons and placeholders
- ✅ Admin inspection tools
- ✅ Improved metadata tracking
- ✅ Advanced configuration options

### **v1.0.0 - Original Notebook System**

- ✅ Basic notebook functionality
- ✅ Metadata storage
- ✅ Server-side validation

## 📞 **Support**

- **Documentation**: Check the `docs/` folder for detailed guides
- **Issues**: Report bugs via GitHub Issues
- **Wiki**: Visit the project wiki for advanced usage examples

## 📄 **License**

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

## 🤝 **Contributing**

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run validation tests
5. Submit a pull request

---

### Made with ❤️ for the Rebirth FiveM roleplay community
